james=<html><body><b>War Stories</b>
Hello there kids! Its another story tellin session from Uncle James - guitar dude from Samiam. So gather around the campfire, wanna hear it? Here it goes! We shall get to slappin Sergie, Aaron and Jason around later just for bein "lazy fuckers"... Ive got them all in a headlock as Im typin. Ha!

The best things about being in Samiam for me is meeting many new cool people all the time, traveling around with reckless abandon with my four other good friends, gathering together years of great times, meeting many nutty people, and awesome drugs, chicks and booze! Nah! Just kiddin...

ANYWAY, like I was satan, ummm... I mean sayin... I remember many unusual stories like it was just yesterday (this is where the scene fades as Im pondering).

One time we played with Bad Religion in Chicago at The Riviera Theater if my bad memory serves me. Al Capone had been there. Not when we played. But, at some point he was, ya know? Went to his old hang outs, bumped off some people that owed us cash broke some knee caps? "Do I look like a clown to you?" Probably so.

We played this huge gig and when we were playing I noticed something hit Jason on the foot and rolled over right by me. It LOOKED like a pine cone, but unfortunately it wasnt. It was a squirrel head that someone threw!

I was blown away! Being a vegetarian, anti-animal killer sensitive guy and all, I asked the people in front who threw it. They were all saying some freaky dude had a bag of squirrel heads!

I inched my way through the crowd as people were pointing him out. His back was turned to me, I tapped him on the back and I said "What the fuck are ya doin weirdo"? As an eerie light was cast on him, he slowly turned around and he looked like ole Charlie Manson! He said "Do I look sane to you!!!!" I said "Yeah". Nah! Whatta freak!

I asked him "Why the bag o heads, freakoid"? And he said that he had been taking acid all day and shooting the squirrels with a B.B. gun and then he brought them to the gig to skin them and throw the heads at The Supersuckers (who was playing with us on the bill). I said " Oh, that explains it". Just kiddin! I was totally scared for everyone in the gig this guy could lose it even more and (not wanting to touch him and get squirrel blood on me) had the bouncers toss him. Snapper!

Great lunch time story kids? This Manson guys reading this on the puter in Joliet sayin "Im gonna skin that Samiam dude alive!" One thing to say buddy... Get in line!

On a friendlier note... Samiam just got done playing a really miserable gig in Bristol, England. Sergie and I were walking around drinking and laughing and noticed many a not so happy face looking at us. There was some"football" match and I guess the local dudes lost. Sissys! ANYWAY...

We went to some miserable pizza parlor and stood behind the sign that said "Wait to be seated". Doing what people tell us at all times (yeah right!) we stood. These blokes (now that my story is in The U.K. Ill use the proper terminology, Jerky!) come in with black soccer (oh, "football") jerseys on and just weasel right in front of us! You cant weasel a weasel!

We started to cry, but then we thought, "Lets stomp these weaklings"! Sergie said "I guess you didnt see the sign, we were first". Very calm, very rational. The who is missing his front teef says "Piss off! I think yer a cunt!"

Sergie and that guy kinda squared off and Sergie just got right in his face, not backing down at tall! The other dude, ummm, bloke says "You better get your friend outta here, matey!" I said " Oh yeah?" He said " Yeah!" I said " Oh yeah"? He said... You get the point.

I was standing right behind Sergies dude ready to just clock him and I noticed these 2 horrid, I mean lovely women that were obviously with them. One that looked like "Witchey Poo" calls me over.

She says in an almost undistinguishable thick English accent , "Cor! Where ya from mate?" I said " San Francisco", looking at her up and down like she was starting shit with me too. Then she says smiling and kinda laughin at me "Oh, the place with all the high heels!" I was like "What the hell you gettin at, high heels? Whats up with that! I dont wear no high heels!" She said No, high HILLS!" Sorry!

Sergie and I end up winning the argument, and dining and dashing to top it all off! Off to one more adventure. You wanna hear the infamous "Yugoslavian shoulder maneuver?" Ok, wanna hear it, here it goes!

We were to play this HHHHHUGE outdoor festival in the middle of nowhere. The place where we were to play was just massive. We got there the night before and stayed in some bed and breakfast place that some old folks owned right down the street.

Jason and I decide to go to some dank, smoky local drinking establishment where all the local farmers go to hang and spend their very hard earned cash. The rest of the dudes are partyin at some club. Jason and I say one beer each and were outta there... Wrong!

We get in there and we are the "heros" for the night, a lot of people are excited to hang out with The nutty Americans, some are too shy and sit and get hammered. We were way excited to hang with them all.

Jason and I sit down, order a beer (a BIG one at that!) and the waitress brings it to us with a shot of some rocket fuel kinda stuff for the both of us as well and says "Im sorry"! And she sets it them down and walks away. We were like "woah"! Ralphin material! So we drank away...


Ten minutes go by and she appears again with another "after burner" drink and again apologizes and sets it down. She knows that we will need an ambulance to take us outta there!

I look at the group of grizzled old men kinda slyly looking at us and seeing how we are hangin with the Croats! The waitress is coming back again and again apologizing with more crazy juice. More commotion from the farmers who by now my puny brain catches on it is them who are tryin to get us lit, as we are just ready to either yuke or start to dance.

I look at Jason and he is just white as a ghost and sayin he cant drink anymore (Theres a first for everything!) I was really worried these guys would get all offended with us turning down their hard earned money (no, were were not turning tricks, they were buyin us drinks, remember?) I had to start down mine AND Jasons drinks. I have never in my life been that drunk... I think...

We stumbled by and thanked all the nice people when the pub was closing down and the waitress helped Jason and me out, everyone laughing as hard as they can at us. I trip out the door as Im sayin goodbye flat on my rumpen ze roasten, bein the smooth dude I am.

Jason and I walk to the club where everyone is partyin at just completely hammered, singing, dancin- completely naked! No, not naked, but totally hammered!

We see our other band mates and dance over to them, we all are just loose as geese(?) and stumble around (from what I remember) laughing and havin a good ole time.

Jason gets on my back, we run around the club everyone cheering with Jason yelling on my back, me spinning around. Jason jumps off my back, I jump up on his and BOOM! He basically pile drives me onto my shoulder and neck! Im so hammered it feels like I broke my neck, but I get up out of partial embarrassment / drunkenness and dive onto a crowd of people. Pain sets in. BIG TIME. Fun. Separated shoulder pops back into place. The most amazing pain I have EVER endured. Loads o fun!

People are helping me down the street to where we are staying at some old couples house. Im crying, laughing down the street. I remember biting the rubber bumper on a Yugo car growling like a dog laughing, sayin Im gonna body slam Jason then give him the "Boston Crab" wrestling manuver, still falling around, getting up and falling into a bush. People help me up.

Everyone tells me to be quiet in the old peoples house. Yeah right! Wild drunk, crazed Americano flipping out with pain and insane drunkenness! Its party time baby!

The old couple come in and tell me to be quiet. I reminded them I just bit a rubber Yugo and I look at them like they are parked cars. They pretty much fear for my sanity and their safety and leave the room. I need a doctor. Badly. Someone helps me to the bathroom where I totally miss the toilet, and I slide down the wall. Its beginning to be morning. Feels like its gonna be a LONG day.

People take me to a local clinic where this really mean nurse says to me with a HUGE needle of some weak pain killer in her hand! " So, how much money does this American have to pay us?" I started to sweat. We had nothing! We had not played yet and the booking agency had just taken our last bit of money. I was gulping and looked out the window and there was Jason as drunk as could be with his face plastered on the glass breathing on it. The nurse looks up and quickly shuts the curtains.

She said "Drop your pants and bend over! Now!" Sounded like the dudes in the band after a dry spell on tour. I said almost crying " We dont have any money yet, you see, its like this..." And WHAM! The needle went almost threw me! It hurt worse than my dislocated shoulder! For a while, anyways... I ran out (after someone helped my with my pants) and kicked over a bunch of planter boxes outside. Thatll show them!

In the morning I make the trek to a hospital on a jerking shitty road many, many, many miles away. After massive hours later we wind up at some hospital where there was no doctors(?). They try to explain it to me, Im like (and then hes like, and then shes like) whatever.

Many more hours go by on these crazy Yugo roads and we finally make it to some god forsaken Yugo army hospital. They put my sorry ass in some back dirty room as I waited for it seemed like days in severe pain.

They wheel in some real old dude on a gurney that has lesions all over his body and is just about to die. Its just him and me in this small, weird room. He looks up at me and says something in Serbo-Croatian and his head falls down. Hes dead! Im trippin my nuggets!

Some family members come in and are asking me what he said, like I know this language! I said he left everything in his will for me. No, I had no clue what he said.

They call my name and make me wait in some hallway and then in comes some poor young woman bleeding pretty badly on her arm. I was bumming heavily that there was not a doctor in sight. An hour goes by. Another half an hour and Im trippin heavily that this woman needs some serious help.

I look into the surgery room and theres two doctors watching t.v. smoking and drinking on a surgery table with their feet up! I walk in a and say " What the hell is goin on here? A woman needs serious help out here!" They look at me like Im bothering them and they dont understand me even though I threw a Yugoslavian accent on my English - sheesh! They finally help her. She thanks me and I sit back down.

I peek in on the action in there, there is blood EVERYWHERE with their hands in her arm and the main doctor has a cigarette hangin outta his mouth! So insane!

Finally they put a sling on my arm (other doctors in Germany and the U.S. say that was a bad thing to do actually) and Im outta there!

The moral to this long winded story is... Ummm... Dont get too juiced?? Whatever!

Let me know if ya wanna hear anymore war stories, if yer that desperate! Got plenny more for yas!

Seriously, thanks to all our friends and fans from all over for the much needed support. It would be real cool to see you all again real soon! Hopefully so... Leave some mail to read, baby!

Love,
James Brogan
</body>
</html>
