sirg_1=<html><body>"<b>A Brief History of that lame band, 
Samiam: Part I"
1988 - 1997</b>
By Sergie Loobkoff.

Hi, my name is Sergie and I play guitar for Samiam. This is my little page so I can write whatever I want...meanwhile the other guys are probably describing their dreams and European tour shit stories. I'll undertake the tedious task of transcribing the band's history. You might consider me to be a anal freak for doing this and you probably aren't wrong. Sorry...

<b>1988</b>
Most of this year there was no band, but it wasn't from lack of trying. From my perspective, these twelve months were a time of figuring (a.) how to play the guitar while sting up, (b.) how to keep time when playing with other people and most importantly (c.) where to find a drummer in the east bay that didn't suck.

Finding Marty (bass) and Jason (our singer) wasn't hard: when their old band, Isocracy, broke up I cornered Jason at a party and simply told him he was going to be the singer of my new band. The drunk bastard kissed me with his fat, wet lips and I knew he was in for the long haul. He and Marty came over to my house after seeing "Rattle and Hum" all stoked to be in a band and we figured out how to play what were to be our songs "The Bridge" and "Friend" really badly.

Of course I was really happy to have found a singer and bassist but there were two problems: how to tell Jason that I didn't want him to play guitar, and how I had been jamming with my roommate Aaron and wanted him to play bass. Luckily, though Aaron would join Samiam five years later, he decided he didn't want to be in my band. Jason was cool about the guitar issue. The real quest was to find a drummer that could pull our dumbass songs off when the rest of us were fighting to overcome our white-boy lack of rhythm.

Finally, after trying out telegraph avenue street musicians, carless and drum-kit-less wierdos, and wannabe funksters, we hooked up with Mark. Not only were we impressed with his ability and nice guy attitude, but his friends informed us that he was known as 'the finest guy in Concord'. While the rest of us were having the worst luck with the fairer sex, here was an opportunity to be in a band with a, forgive the term, 'chick-magnet'. Slowly but surely, we found out he was just as lame as the rest of us.

<b>1989</b>
After two months of practicing, we played our first show at the Berkeley Square. This was a pretty weird place to play because we were all from 'Gilman-bs' (meaning we were in punk bs that played only at parties and Gilman street) and at the time, the Berkeley Square was considered a 'rock-club'. Just as our music wasn't totally by-the-numbers punk, we wanted to do things in a non-punk regimented fashion. I guess all the bs we liked at the time were similar in attitude: rock bs consisting of people from the punk scene.

To make things weirder, we set up a show with Christ on Parade, one of our area's biggest politico-punk bs. Of course, they were the bigger band, but because of the venue and the fact that people wanted to see what the guys from Isocracy were up to, most of the people came to see us. For many of them, it was the first and last time they would see Samiam: we went over like a sack of shit and were immediately bred sell-outs.

Never the less, we were stoked and in the coming months played everywhere we could with any band. In fact, in the following years we probably played with every punk band you could think of. Shit, I know this is going to be boring but just for the hell of it I'm going to try to remember most of them: Operation Ivy, Poison Idea, the Vals, the Melvins, the Dwarves, 7 Seconds, the Offspring, Green Day, the Circle Jerks, the Doughboys, DOA, Social Unrest, Snuff, Screeching Weasel, Bad Religion, Soulside, SNFU, Lagwagon, Neurosis, New Bomb Turks, Agnostic Front...ah, fuck it...but my point is that we played with so many even though we were outcasts in many ways from 'the scene'.

Of course, you have to underst that this feeling of alienation was mostly in our heads...we were still playing Gilman once a month (which most bs couldn't do because of the booking waiting list) and people were coming to see us. Like most people, we could receive fifty compliments and one sell-out jeer, and at the end of the night all we would remember is the insult.

After only a few shows, James joined the band. We were very excited because all of us loved his old band, Social Unrest, and appreciated the fact that their attention to melody and non-exclusive punk tempos, gave them some of the same backlash that we 'enjoyed'. Ryan, the guy we were previously playing with, is still friends with us today but, to put it politely, clashed personality-wise.

<b>1990</b>
This was an alternately good and bad year for us. In the good department, we put out a 7" on lookout followed by our debut CD on New Red Archives. In the bad, Mark decided to quit and finish college in Hawaii. His departure was less than good timing: we had to mix half our record and find a new drummer quickly because a European tour had already been booked.

Luckily, we found Dave, not only a great drummer but a really nice guy too. Dave was the first guy in Samiam that really could play his instrument in a musician sense. The rest of us were able to get though a Samiam set but, if he wanted to, he could play jazz or be in a blues band or something. So yes, we went to Europe for sixteen weeks. Great fun, especially because the opening band, Ultraman, became such good friends of ours. These mid-western guys were so much crazier than us: they occasionally played naked, went off with foreign girls night after night and drank till the cows came home. Luckily they were great guys. I would have hated them with jealousy if they weren't.

Highlights of the trip: (a) in Saltzgitter, when Matt (Ultraman guitarist) got in a fight on stage with a drunken German army-man, James clocked the 'Adolf' so hard, he passed out and and turned blue. Thinking, he might of killed the soldier, James hid in the bus...meanwhile, the dumbass private first-class wondered through the crowd yelling in broken English, "I vant to speak vit the roadie of Samiam".

Highlight (b.): In former Yugoslavia, James and Jason were drinking in a bar receiving many freebies from the friendly locals unaware of the drinks' potency. At one point, Jason staggardly lifted James, 25 lbs heavier, over his shoulder and twirled him off a four and a half foot stage. Poor inebriated James never knew what hit him. I was in the bed and breakfast a mile away when he stumbles in with a full range of emotion: unsure what was going on. Basically, I have to inform him that his shoulder was dislocated and he had to go to the hospital. Not the place to visit in Europe, especially when piss drunk.

Being the trooper he is, two nights later in Rome, James played with his arm in a sling. When we got back to the states we had a few days off and then went on our first US tour with the great London band Snuff. Twelve people in a dodge van on top of the equipment. They too proved to be an awesome band to tour with. Many people today probably think they are a new band, but Snuff had three full albums and many EPs before the Fat Wreckchords CD.

<b>1991</b>
After such a busy year, the next few seemed kinda stale in comparison. Maybe we decided that taking our band so seriously was silly, maybe we were just broke, but we decided no more four month tours. We did record Soar, our second album and returned to Europe in this year... did a short east coast tour where we flew out and rented a minivan. People always ask us what it was like having Brett from Bad Religion produce our CD (we went down to LA to do it).

Actually, at the time, although we were all vaguely familiar with Bad Religion., we had no idea that they were so popular. We thought their records sounded pretty good and the studio was pretty cheap. While we were down there they played and I had seen nothing like it before: four thous people at a punk show. Of course, now that is commonplace...but then it blew our minds. Brett, though, had little to do with our sound on Soar. He had ideas, like Bad Religion background vocals, but we weren't into it and he didn't push it. Nice guy, though.

<b>1992</b>
Some weird shit went down in this year. We recorded a demo for or third album that we released in Europe (a mini CD called, Beauf) and decided to do a third eurotour. After booking the thing with the agency, making posters, etc. James figured out that he couldn't leave his business. He used to have a company that fixed laser printers and at the time couldn't leave it. The rest of us agonized on what to do, "shit, shit..."Finally, we said fuck it we had to go and as strange as it seems, we went with one of my best friends, Sean, on guitar.

It was a fun tour but on the first night, Dave told Sean, "I'm quitting Samiam after this tour, I want to start a band with you when we get back." So he felt weird. He knew how much this band meant to the rest of us and didn't know if he should tell me Dave's intentions. I'm glad he didn't because I blissfully enjoyed every minute of the trip. For some reason, we danced at clubs after almost every show...always to Sean's Bee Gee's tape that he would lend to the DJs. Night after night people would stare at us American freaks as we would nerd-dance to 'Jive Talkin''. I think we might have done some US touring but nothing too serious.

<b>1993</b>
We did Billy, our third album this year. All of us really loved a record called 'Hold Me Up' by the Goo Goo Dolls so we got their producer, Armand, to do it with us. He flew out, and with Billy erson engineering (hence, the title Billy), we cranked it out. Billy and and Armand didn't really see things alike: Billy produces bands like Neurosis and the Melvins, so he had a pretty different perspective on sound from Armand. We loved them both separately.

After that, Dave quit ( we didn't go to Europe for a while). Mark, after dropping out of college again (too much surfing, not enough studying), rejoined and really gave our band a kick in the pants. While Dave is a great musician and all, Mark is so much more emotional and hard hitting. Both drummers added something to Samiam, but definitely reflected different attitudes and interpretations of our songs. With Mark drumming, we did a US tour and an east coast tour with Bent. Bent is a great St. Louis band made up of various Ultraman members so we had much to catch up on. You can download a video clip of a scene during a show on this tour in Janesville, Wisconsin on this web site in the video section. Basically, things were getting a bit crowded and James saw a guy slug a girl....see what happened by downloading the clip.
Towards the end of the year, Green Day got signed and major labels started calling us. Remember, at the time Green Day weren't really much more popular than us, so we thought if they are going to do it, why not us? Many free meals were had and although our story is much less interesting than the bidding war that surrounded Green Day, it was exciting for us. Just as this started, Marty realized that Samiam wanted to tour more and act more seriously, so he left. We were really bummed but happy to get Aaron in the band (he used Samiam as an excuse to leave law school). After much deliberation, we signed to Atlantic. Much of it had to do with the fact that they had signed great bs (Jawbox, Bad Religion, Rocket From the Crypt, Drive Like Jehu, etc..) and we liked the people we met there. You know, many people were pissed at us for 'selling-out', but to be honest, we made our decision and we didn't care.

<b>1994</b>
In the early part of the year we made Clumsy, which was to be our only Atlantic release. Collectively, we shat our pants when we learned that Lou Giordano had agreed to produce. Not only had he and Bob Mould made such a great Sugar debut, but Lou worked on so many awesome records by Moving Targets, Gang Green and others.

With this bright spot, though, real problems arose. I've always said that the drummer is one of the most important parts of any band, and ours (Mark) wasn't really working out. By the time we started recording the bass and drums, it was clear that although Mark is a great drummer, he wasn't going to work out for Samiam. We spent a full week with him pounding away and at the end, had no usable drum tracks, even with computer trickery.

One morning the horrible decision was made and we kicked him out of the band. It was fucking horrible and none of us would wish to be in those shoes again. Many rumors floated around like he was a junkie or that Atlantic forced us to kick him out when we didn't want to. None are true. Basically, he wasn't into playing the songs the way we wanted to play them.

Vic, Aaron's boyhood friend flew up immediately and played each song within five days of ever hearing the name Samiam. Say what you might from the perspective of a fan or listener of Samiam (no non-Samiam listener would make it this far into our web page), but I think because of the sound quality, performance, and songs, this record was ten times as good as any of our previous releases. I underst that the 'punkers' might only like the debut and others think Soar is the best, but I am most proud of this one ( our new one). 

Whatever.

When the record hit the shelves, we worked our asses off. First, we toured the west with old heroes the Circle Jerks and then a full US tour with soon to be stars, the Toadies. They were so great as people and as a band...now that they are really big we've seen them and they are just as down to earth as before. Really cool people. After that, we did a full tour with the Supersuckers and Bad Religion. This was our first experience at playing in front of thousands of people every night. Although not as crazy as the times we've opened for Green Day since they blew up, it was still neat. It's funny, but the difference between playing in front of two thous or twenty thous people is not as big as I would have imaged...both are quite different from what we are used to when headlining.

<b>1995</b>
Though not exactly the big hit that we would have liked it to be, Clumsy continued to do well by our stards. It sold more that our other CDs and the songs started to get good responses at shows. We made two videos (that you can download in this web page) for 'Capsized' and 'Stepson'. The first one got played on MTV a bunch but the second one not so much. Still, it was neat to turn on the TV and see it.

One time, in Montreal, we had just gotten into our hotel room and the front desk lady called up excited yelling, "You guys are on TV! Turn on Channel 5!" We pretended that it was no big deal, but what she didn't know was that the situation had more to do with coincidence than our popularity. We also played the John Stewart show while in New York. Cindy Crawford and some silly TV actor were the guests. Later that night we went to a bar and watched on a public TV. The 'cool NYC bar folk' were less excited about the performance and more pissed about turning off the jukebox for five minutes.

After that, we did a long US tour with the Goops, Chokebore, and Sensefield. All the bs were great to tour with and much fun was had. But when that was over, Atlantic saw Clumsy to be officially 'over'. It was time to make up new songs. In our minds, we figured that we would write the songs in three or four months, record, and see it in stores sometime early 1996. Atlantic had different ideas.

<b>1996</b>
By the time 1996 arrived, we had spent ten months making demos of songs and having them rejected by Atlantic. It was weird. They said, "no this isn't ready, here is some money, go make another demo." After several rounds of this, finally we were ready to record in February. Unfortunately, Vic's patience with Samiam and our deal prompted him to quit. I totally underst...the guy is so talented, I mean he can play guitar a thous times better than James or I can, and he depended us to write music for him to apply his craft? He wanted to explore music with other people (he went on to play on the new Depeche Mode CD, Masters of Reality and is still in a band with the singer of Stone Temple Pilots).

Which leads us to our drummer of the last year and a half: MP. He's a great guy and just as weird (well, maybe weirder) and fucked up as the rest of us. Most importantly, he is a great drummer. He fits in perfectly: like the rest of us, he once had a lot of hair on his head...now, not as much.

Somehow we convinced this guy Steven Haigler to produceour latest record (he did the first Quicks CD and engineered the Pixies albums). I am really happy with it. After the record was finished, we toured Europe with the great Texas is the Reason (RIP). As usual, Europe was great but this time was a bit different because we had a bus. You might think a bus would be amazing...lets just say, "you didn't see this bus."Enough said.

Over the summer we toured the US with Blink 182, Unwritten Law and China Drum (again, every guy in every band is a friggin' saint) to the east coast and then toured home on the Warped tour. It was great playing in front of so many people but I have to say, it's funner playing to a smaller crowd that came to see just your band. Now we have more Vans shoes than we know what to do with. Our expectations of arriving home with a new record deal in the works turned out to be a pipe dream. Many labels were interested and we played in LA twice in November at 'showcases' for various labels but either we sucked or the hefty Atlantic price tag kept them away. Probably a combination of the two.

<b>1997</b>
Which brings us to this year. For most of it, I basically considered our band to be broken up. We hadn't played or practiced in months and were all pretty discouraged. I actually joined a band called 'Knapsack' and toured a little bit with Sensefield. But out of the blue I got a call from our manager, Corey, who said that Atlantic has finally decided to be reasonable and give up the record for a fair price. I had already been talking to labels Europe (Burning Heart) and Australia, so the album will come out there first, and our managers are going to negotiate for an American label. Burning Heart may also buy Clumsy, which you might have noticed is increasingly hard to find since we left Atlantic. We've never gone to Australia so that would be really fun. Also, a song is appearing on a compilation on a NYC label called Deep Elm and a Split 7" w/ Sixpack on a french label called Sugar and Spice. Hopefully more news will happen, lets see...

Sergie 4/9/97
</body>
</html>