sirg_2=<html><body>"<b>A Brief History of that lame band, 
Samiam:  Part II"
1997 - 1998</b>
By Sergie Loobkoff.

Some of you might have read my previous entry, "<b>A brief history of that lame band, Samiam 1988-1997</b>". It is obvious to any reader, I think, that I haven't concerned myself with the art of writing in many years. Please don't email me with insults concerning my grammar, lame sentence and paragraph structure nor uncreative story-telling. For a sampling of interesting and well crafted writing, check out Sean's entry....he is the talented one in the band.

Anyway, here goes:

<b>1997</b>
Last year was pretty good for the old Serge. I saw this band basically rise from the ashes of doom and adversity.

Samiam entered 1997 with a finished record and not only no label, but no ownership of the recording. Yes, the "evil-timewarner-empire" conspired to either extort great sums of money from another willing record label or just bury "that lame band, Samiam" for eternity.

Lucky for us, though, Swedish dough arrived to save the day. Our magnificent leader, Corey (otherwise known as our manager), pulled some scam with Atlantic to where the Swede's Burning Heart Recording label were able to purchase the new album (entitled "you are freaking me out") for the world excluding the U.S. . As it turns out, although Timewarner business affairs suits were staunch in their demand of cash for the states, the thought of Europe (and the rest of the world) going to a indie label didn't threaten them. Basically, Peter and Burning Heart got the recording for about 10 percent of the cost that Atlantic spent to produce it. Good fucking deal!

At this time, I had no expectations for the band. The real bummer was to think that our record, that we had spent so much time on, would've never been heard. June saw the release of "you are freaking me out" in Europe and we toured for several weeks in Sweden.

The highlight of the trip was an appearance at Hultsfred, which is Sweden's largest annual festival. Basically, 30,000 Scandinavians cruise out to this little village (Hultsfred) and camp out for three days. In no way can you compare the event to any American festivals, even though big bands played (Prodigy, Rage Against the Machine, Cardigans, WuTang, Suede, Blur, Nick Cave etc..) thousands preferred to hang out in the tent area and get fucked up or fucked than watch music. It was so much fun, I barely saw any bands myself because meeting all these people in the campground was so much funner.

When we got back, the record was released in South America, Japan, Australia and Canada on domestic labels licensed from Burning Heart. It is cool, in the rest of the world this label is pretty much as big as Epitaph, Fat, Subpop, or whatever.

In August, we returned to Europe for a full tour with Shades Apart. We had a unusually great time and were overwhelmed by the support of the new record. Zok, who did our sound at Hultsfred, and Kjell, who is the drummer of No Fun At All, came along as roadies and everyone got along so well. Even though it was our 6th or 7th time in Europe, it was kinda like a new beginning....the shows were great and fun was had. Seeing all our old friends on a yearly basis is really neat, I like thinking that I have them all over the world (thank god for email or my phone bill would be crazy). Phillip, our booking agent (and drummer for Queerfish) came along for bits of the tour and was a drunken mess much of the time.

When we arrived home, we had maybe two weeks and then boom we were off again...this time to Japan. I guess I could go on and on about touring there. I wouldn't know where to start. It was so amazing. To be honest, the shows weren't that great. I mean they were fun but pretty much small (the biggest was 500 people and average was about 200) and people only had a vague conception of who we were. This was weird because our tourmates (millencolin) had been there before on a grander scale. But the actual shows were just a small part of the tour and what did we expect, it was our first one.

Japan is so neat because it is so different. Yeah, they have Xerox machines, Fords and McDonalds....but in a way, while you first walk around, you feel like you are on a alternate planet. The food was intense and everything was paid for by the tour...good knows how much those feasts cost, when Ken (our beloved tour manager) asked, "more beer? more sake? more sushi? more whatever?" a chorus of approval would ring out from around the table. And these restaurants were pretty much the exact stereotype of what you'd expect. Yeah, you had to remove your shoes, sit on these mats with crazy Buddha statues staring at you....the whole nine-yards.

Another great thing about the tour was the way that we were treated. All the pains of touring were non-existent. Roadies moved and setup everything, hotels were booked in advance and 'drives' were short (because we took the bullet train everywhere at 200mph).

So to conclude on the subject of 1997, our album came out and we went to Europe twice, Japan once....but as far as North American's we were considered MIA. In December we opened up for Green Day in San Francisco and went over really terribly. Green Day's audience were really young and never heard of us (even in our own town) and we probably sucked anyways. A crummy way to experience our only show in America in 1997. Well, at least they didn't boo us....but they just stood there, patiently waiting for the other band.

<b>1998</b>
I don't really know how or why, but Atlantic finally gave up at some point and our record came out in March on Ignition Records. And the shitty thing is that Ignition paid the same small sum of money that Burning Heart were required to pay....all that time and energy wasted because Atlantic tried to hold out for tons of cash. Whatever...it was certainly a relief to finally have a new label and not wonder if there was ever going to be a domestic release of "you are freaking me out".

For the record, because people ask all the time, Ignition isn't a major label. It is owned by Tommy Boy (that is a big rap and R and B major) but the distribution is ADA (which is a small indie distributor) and there are only a handful of employees (less than at Fat or Epitaph). But if you are wondering whether Samiam are into major labels (i.e. still sell-outs) the truth is that we would be on another major if anyone wanted us....no one did. If it sounds stupid or crazy of us to get back into a major label situation, I don't know what to say except from my experience, labels, major or indie, fuck over bands all the time. Personally, I would look to the people at labels to judge them and then see what the deal is. Just because you are poorer as a business doesn't make you more honest or able to support a band.

A perfect example of this is the Deep Elm label. They are small east coast label that put out a compilation with one of our songs (called, 'Ordinary Life'). This company is probably one guy or maybe a couple of people. They have small indie distribution and advertise in punk zines and try to be part of the 'scene'. Well, this guy, who never paid us one penny, is now suing us for putting the song we wrote, performed and recorded on our own album. He says that he wanted the song to be exclusive to his compilation and that we broke our contract with him. As evil as Atlantic was in some ways, they never tried to extort money from a band. So my point is, I don't consider Major = evil and Indie = community minded. People that sell records are businessmen/women and bands should go with people that will sell their records in the best way for the band. Just my opinion.

Anyways, I've totally digressed here, sorry.

So I have mentioned that the album came out in March....I think it was March 24th. Just before we returned to Japan for another tour, this time opening for Green Day. As this approached, we parted ways with Aaron, our bass player (who got married and is now in law school). Sean, who toured Europe with us years back in place of James, cheerfully joined "that lame band, Samiam". He has been a great pal since we met at college and fit in immediately. In many ways, I don't think we could survive without him joining.

This trip was one of the most fun periods of my life...at least so far. I told you what fun a Japan tour is outside of shows, but this time we were playing night after night to 1000's of people. It wasn't that we suddenly got more known in those months, but the excitement of the audiences anticipating seeing Green Day made them really crazy. Every show was filled with stage diving, jumping around and screaming while we performed. Sure, I bet it could be trained monkeys banging on the instruments and they would respond similarly....but it was surreal and incredibly fun to do. I, personally, have never aspired to be a rock star, but if there was ever a time that I could pretend, these shows were the time.

Plus, touring with those guys and Bill, Timmy, Jimmy, etc. (the crew) was hell of fun.

When we got home we got ready to tour the U.S. for the first time since the end of '96...for what became three and a half months. It started in Alabama with a band called Creed.

Now, before you gasp for air, choking on the idea of Samiam touring with Creed, listen to this: it was pretty good. Musically speaking, the band isn't my cup of tea and creatively I'm not sure if there is anything going on....but the tour was fun. We played to really receptive audiences a majority of the time. Truthfully, I was expecting to be booed off the stage by angry metal heads that wondered why we didn't have mullets. But in reality, Creed audiences are filled less with plumbers and hicks and more with young 'modern rock' or 'alternative types' that don't really go to many shows. As a result, the kids would hear us and we supplied adequate noises for them to jump around and stuff. And the guys in the band were really nice and level headed. Sure, they were selling millions of records but goddamn, they are nice fellas....no star trip from most of them.

Just as the Creed tour was winding up, "that lame band, Samiam"'s first singe (called she found you) really started to kick ass on the radio. In fact, in every city we were going to, the big rock or alt. rock station was playing the shit out of it. Now, again, I have no aspirations to be in a big rock band, but this was neat. Lots of times, when we played that song, the crowd would make a collective, "oh, this is that band" and get excited. I'll stop here with that before I sound like I am trying to brag or pump up the bands success. I will tell you, that this record didn't start selling much better that the last because of it....so there, I ain't bragging.

We had 3 days off in Houston, where we stayed with Sean's grandparents house (real fun), and then we met up with Green Day for a tour of the U.S. with them. It was great to see them again and to play infront of their crowd. And as expected, it went well. Of course, no audience was like the Japanese crowds, most of the time we did really well. Plus, in no cities was is anywhere as bad as in S.F..

One highlight was playing in a small club in Pontiac, MI where we got to watch Green Day play infront of only 400 people...and going off. Back in their heyday, when 400 people was a bigger sized green day crowd, I don't think they played anywhere as pumped up.

Scott, the drummer of Sensefield, tour managed for us on the green day tour...it was great, he is such an awesome pal. Plus, he is a patient instructor and tried to teach me how to play, 'Trip Poem" on Tre's drumset. I suck though, and couldn't handle it.

The next leg of the tour was mostly headlining but full of radio shows. These radio gigs were OK in terms of getting to play with the likes of Green day, Foo Fighters, Bosstones, etc.. and getting to play in front of as many as 30,000 people but I dunno.....I'd rather play in front of 300 people that came specifically to see us. Whatever, some were good and some were not so good. In RFK stadium, we saw our old drummer, Vic. He was playing drums for Scott Wieland. They weren't too great as a band but Vic was great to watch...and it was bizarre to see 60,000 people shake their butts to his beats. Several days later Wieland got busted for drugs, so I suppose Vic went home. Bummer, but he had shows playing with Willie Nelson coming up so we was really happy.

The other shows were with a band from Ireland called Blink and an English band called Addict. Basically, our booking agent paired us up without consulting us. We were very bummed (not because either band were bad) because, we wanted to play with bands that made sense like Getup Kids, Promise Ring, Braid, Fireside, Sensefield or whatever...bands where kids would come for a 'punk' show. As it turned out, Blink were a pop band in the vein of U2 and Addict were sort of like Bush or something. At alot of shows, people wouldn't come up to the front for those bands and in some cases, Addict headlined (if the radio station in that city was pushing Addict) and the crowd left after we played. The thing was, though, every guy in both bands were totally nice. In fact, Blink are opening for us on 7 shows of our next tour because we love each other so. Though the tour was less that successful in some terms....we had tons of fun.

So now it is October and I am leaving on Thursday for a month of Canada/US touring and then in December we go to Germany for 3 weeks....it will be safe to say that "You are Freaking Me Out" will be completely toured to the ground. Well, not everywhere....we will not have played in SF, Seattle, Portland nor Vancouver on this record but we played alot. I have seven songs, James has five and Sean has four, so hopefully, we will be able to record in early 1998 and start touring in the spring again. Who knows what "that lame band, Samiam" will be up to.

sergie
10/12/98
</body>
</html>