books=<html><body><b>BOOK ONE: "The Freedom Train"</b>
Joey Thompson doesn't know the significance of the necklace she finds in her Aunt Camille's apothecary until it starts spinning.  In a rush of white light she is transported into the past!
While Joey frantically tries to determine where she is Peter Stratinger, a know-it-all high school friend of her sister's, appears out of nowhere.  Holding out his Amulet, he explains that he is a Tempes Soudeour, a Time Soldier, whose job is to fix problems that appear in the time continuum.   Joey looks down at the necklace she took from the shop.  They are exactly the same!
Now stuck in the past, Joey learns that The Amulet will only transport her back to her own time when she completes what was supposed to be her Aunt's mission.  She must find where history has been changed and return the timeline to the correct course.  Peter further explains that The Amulet will signal her when she is on the right path by changing shape, and when it snaps back to its original position, The Amulet will send her home.  Then, Peter vanishes as quickly as he came, leaving Joey alone in the past with a seemingly impossible job. 
In the meantime, Aunt Camille is called before The Council of Tempus to explain how her niece came to have her Amulet when she has not yet been approved as her chosen heir and has not reached the activation age.  After much discussion, The Council decides that if Joey fails her mission, not only will Aunt Camille lose her recently deceased mother's seat on The Council, but also her family will no longer be a part of the society of Congressus at all.  Outwardly, Camille expresses great confidence in Joey, but secretly she is worried.
In the past, Joey befriends a Quaker family who gives her a place to stay.  After several mishaps while meddling with the lives of her hosting family, Joey discovers the house is a stop on the Underground Railroad and Harriet Tubman herself is leading her own family to freedom.  Snap!  Joey looks down and sees The Amulet has finally changed shape.  
With no time to lose and battling against unknown Council conspiracies, Joey must find a way out for Harriet and her family, all the while hoping it is enough to send her home.
</body></html>
