what_is_congressus=<html><body><b>HOW IT ALL BEGAN...Congressus:</b>

In 1450 BC, a mysterious inventor from the future brought THE NUCLEUS to the druids in southern England.  The futuristic machine, which looks more like a sculpture than a computer, monitors the timeline.  The inventor also brought with him THE PARCHMENT, a document that, among other things, listed the strict regulations for traveling through time.  The druids placed The Parchment in a golden tube where it remained for centuries.  Strangely, the tube disappeared sometime around 1400 AD.

The Parchment left instructions for the druids to forge THE AMULETS.  Thirteen Amulets came out of the fires.  These magical ruby necklaces receive orders from The Nucleus, sending the selected bearer to the time and place when something has deviated from history.
The druids were given strict instructions to bestow one Amulet to thirteen chosen families from all around the world.  These families were magically brought to Stonehenge where they were indoctrinated into the organization and given their Amulets; with some families coming from yet to be discovered continents.

The Amulet is bestowed upon one member of each family.  That individual has been brought in to serve as the Tempes Soudeour, or Time Soldier.  This person must be at least fifteen years of age.  They must possess incredible analytical skills and be extraordinarily courageous.  They are the ones who travel through the time vortex to put history on the proper track when something has changed.  They must complete their mission, while carefully managing the elements so that no other part of history is altered.

The chosen families formed the first Council of Tempus and to this day are there to govern the Tempes Soudeours as well as each other.  The Council Members receive a message from The Nucleus via a Receptor, worn as a ring, when the Soudeour is transported.  The Council Member is able to monitor the Soudeour’s progress and if a mission falters, The Council, working unanimously, has the ability to bring the Soudeour back or send reinforcements to complete the mission.  

The Council dictates when it is time for a Soudeour to pass his or her Amulet to the next chosen heir.  The choice must be approved by all members.  When the Soudeour retires, they may take their family’s chair on The Council or withdraw from Congressus completely.

Ten families remain on The Council.  Three families were removed when they were caught using their Amulets and missions for monetary gain.  The families are presently at large, unfortunately still holding tight to their Amulets.  However, The Council has been able to retrieve all but one of their receptor rings.

The Council is currently in the throws of a power struggle.  One group of members believes that The Council should not only correct the timeline, but implement changes they believe would benefit society as a whole.  The other set of members believes that making changes to the timeline without knowing the consequences of these actions would be catastrophic and immoral.
</body></html>

